Create Maven Project

Creating Maven projects is based on the concept of an archetype. Think of an archetype as a predefined template, like a blueprint from which we can generate projects.

Tasks

Create a new maven project using the command mvn archetype:generate -B -DgroupId=edu.eci -DartifactId=file-spy, take screenshots.

What do means the -B option in the command?

This option means batch mode, without colors.

What do means the -D option in the command?

This option means that we are going to define a system property in manual form, in this case we define the groupId.

What do means the groupId, artifactId properties in the command?

The groupId means the name of the package of the classes that we are going to create,
the artifactId is the name of the file where all the project is.

Describe the content of the directory that has been created.

The directory contains the Project Object Model (POM) and the source directory (src),
the POM is the configuration file that contains the dependencies of the project.
The src directory divides in two other directories, the main directory that have the source code
and the test directory that have the soruce code for testing the project.
Each directory have the package java/groupId that includes a basic java class for start the project ans the testing.

Create the folders src/main/resources` and `src/test/resources

POM file

POM stands for Project Object Model And this file represents a one stop configuration for the entire project. Open the file to answer the next questions.

Task:

What do means the word SNAPSHOT in the version value?

This means that the project is under development.

What is the purpose of the packing tag into the POM file?

This tag define the type of executable that is going to be generated when we deploy the project.

What is the purpose of the dependencies and dependency tags into the POM file?

Include other tools or projects that we use in our project.

Task:

Go to the MVNRepository and search fortika-core library. Add a new dependency to the POM file with the last version of this library.
Replace the App class in the source folder with the FileSpy class provided in the workshop.

What is the functionality of this class?

Search files of a certaint type inside a directory.